---
layout: topic
title:  "FAQ"
---

# I need a package to be installed on Snap. Can I do that?

Absolutely! Snap supports limited `sudo` access. You may install your favorite package by configuring a setup task to install the package you need `sudo yum install --assumeyes package-name`

Base CentOS and EPEL repositories are already on the systems, but if you'd like other repositories to be enabled, you can do so. For e.g. to enable the popular *Les RPM de Remi* repository `sudo yum install --assumeyes http://rpms.famillecollet.com/enterprise/remi-release-6.rpm`

# Do you support language X?

You can check it out in our {% topic_link "Languages" "languages page" %}. If you'd like to see your favorite language being supported by Snap, then [contact us]({{ site.link.contact_us }}). See {% topic_link "The CI Environment" "the CI environment" %} for more on the specifics for each platform.

# Can I get a specific version of a language or build tool?

See {% topic_link "The CI Environment" "the CI environment" %} for the list of versions we support. If your version is not listed,  please [contact us]({{ site.link.contact_us }})

# Do you support database X?

We currently support MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite3. You can also use external services such as MongoHQ easily. We plan to add support for a few other data-stores very soon. If you'd like to see your favorite database on that list, then [contact us]({{ site.link.contact_us }}). See {% topic_link "The CI Environment" "the CI environment" %}} for what is supported.

# Do you support deployments to platform X?

We currently support out-of-the-box deployments to Heroku. However, most platforms support deployment using some CLI tools. You can configure a stage in Snap to invoke these tools or scripts to perform deployments. We have teams deploying to HP Cloud, Amazon AWS and other platforms using Snap.

# Does the X-Window system run by default?

Yes! Snap runs `xvfb` with a resolution of `1280x1024x16` and makes a `DISPLAY` variable available to your builds. If you're running GUI testing tools, you may want to checkout our guide on {% topic_link "Testing with browsers" "browser testing" %}.


