---
layout: topic
title:  "Revoking privileges granted to Snap"
---

To ensure that Snap no longer gets to connect to GitHub on your behalf:

* Visit your [profile page](https://github.com/settings/profile) on GitHub.
* Click **Applications**, and **Revoke** the access to the application named **Snap CI**.

You should also make sure that you visit the settings page for your project and remove any relevant **service hooks** and **deploy keys** that belong to Snap.

## Why does Snap need all these permissions?

Snap does not allow you to add any project builds because it requires admin permissions on a GitHub repository.

We require the following privileges from GitHub:

* **Read access to your profile information** - We store your email address and name to communicate with you over email and send you email notifications on build status changes.
* **Write access to your repositories** - We require write access to your repositories to add a GitHub WebHook so GitHub tells us each time new code is pushed to the repository. We also upload a SSH public key so that we can checkout code from the repository.
* **List all the repositories a user can access** - When setting up a build on Snap, we need to know what repositories you own or collaborate on, so we can setup your access accordingly.
* **List all the users that collaborate on a repository** - We require this access so we can invite other collaborators and setup their membership when creating a project build on Snap.

**Note:** We never, ever commit code to your repository or look at your source code.

If you'd like to setup CI for a repository on GitHub that you are not an administrator on, you should have an admin or owner setup the build and you can join in as a collaborator or fork the project under your GitHub account and set it up for yourself.
