---
layout: topic
title:  "Languages"
---

Snap is a hosted continuous integration and continuous delivery service. We offer first-class support for these languages. We attempt to perform automatic detection of your repository to determine how to setup dependencies and tests. This detection may at times be incomplete and you may edit your pipeline configuration as appropriate.

Snap provides support for the following languages:

* [Ruby/JRuby](#ruby-jruby)
* [Python](#python)
* [NodeJS](#nodejs)
* [PHP](#php)
* [Java](#java)
* [Groovy/Gradle](#groovy-gradle)
* [C/C++](#c-c++)
* [Android](#android)


# Ruby/JRuby

Snap provides the following versions of Ruby and JRuby. You may install additional gems using `sudo gem install GEM_NAME --no-ri --no-rdoc`.

**Ruby**

{{ site.versions.ruby | monospaced_array_to_bullet_list }}

**JRuby**

{{ site.versions.jruby | monospaced_array_to_bullet_list }}

We also pre-install the following gems that users may find useful:

* bundler - `{{ site.versions.bundler }}`
* rake - `{{ site.versions.rake }}`
* foreman - `{{ site.versions.foreman }}`



# Python

For Python based projects, Snap will automatically setup `virtualenv` to create an isolated environment for your build. You may install additional packages using `pip install ...`. Snap provides the following Python versions.

{{ site.versions.python | monospaced_array_to_bullet_list }}



# NodeJS

Snap provides the following versions of NodeJS. You may install additional packages using `[sudo] npm install [-g] [PACKAGE_NAME]`.

{{ site.versions.nodejs | monospaced_array_to_bullet_list }}



# PHP

Snap provides the following versions of PHP. You may install additional packages using `[sudo] composer` `[sudo] pear install PACKAGE_NAME` or `phar` which comes pre-installed.

{{ site.versions.php | monospaced_array_to_bullet_list }}

Also, Snap allows you to easily manage you extensions and configurations by using the commands:

* add-php-configuration

      Usage: add-php-configuration <path to config (ini) file>
      Example: add-php-configuration config/my_custom_config.ini

* enable-php-extension

      Usage: enable-php-extension <extension name>
      Example: enable-php-extension my_extension



# Java

Snap provides the following versions of Java.

{{ site.versions.sunjdk | monospaced_array_to_bullet_list }}


The following tools available on `PATH`

* Apache Ant - `{{ site.versions.ant }}`
* Apache Maven - `{{ site.versions.maven }}`
* Gradle - `{{ site.versions.gradle }}`


# Groovy/Gradle

Snap provides building most JVM based applications including Groovy/Closure/JRuby. Several versions of [Java](#java) are available.

Snap provides gradle verion `{{ site.versions.gradle }}` on the `PATH`.



# C/C++

Snap offers the following tools to build C/C++ based projects.

* git - {{ site.versions.git }}
* gcc - {{ site.versions.gcc }}
* g++ - {{ site.versions['gcc-c++'] }}
* make - {{ site.versions.make }}
* QT - {{ site.versions['qt5-qtbase'] }}



# Android

To get started with building and testing Android applications, Snap provides a shell script to initialize the Android SDK. To initialize the SDK, first execute the task `download-android`. The `$ANDROID_HOME` environment variable is already setup for you.

To save space, Snap does not download every Android version, so you'll need to specify the versions and components you want to install:

```
$ download-android
$ echo y | android update sdk --no-ui --filter platform-tool
$ echo y | android update sdk --no-ui --filter android-18
```

This may be a bit cumbersome, so it is recommended that you create a shell script (e.g. `initialize-android.sh`) to initialize your environment, and call it as the first task in your stage.

<pre>
#!/bin/bash

# raise an error if any command fails!
set -e

INITIALIZATION_FILE="$ANDROID_HOME/.initialized-dependencies"

if [ ! -e ${INITIALIZATION_FILE} ]; then
  # fetch and initialize $ANDROID_HOME
  download-android
  # Use the latest android sdk tools
  echo y | android update sdk --no-ui --filter platform-tools > /dev/null
  echo y | android update sdk --no-ui --filter tools > /dev/null

  # The BuildTools version used by your project
  echo y | android update sdk --no-ui --filter build-tools-20.0.0 --all > /dev/null

  # The SDK version used to compile your project
  echo y | android update sdk --no-ui --filter android-18 > /dev/null

  # Specify at least one system image if you want to run emulator tests
  echo y | android update sdk --no-ui --filter sys-img-armeabi-v7a-android-19 --all > /dev/null
  ...
  touch ${INITIALIZATION_FILE}
fi
</pre>


## Starting an emulator to run your tests:

We recommend using the following script, we also recommend that you check this into your repository.
This script will create an AVD, start the emulator and wait for the the emulator to come alive and background it.

```
$ echo no | android create avd --force -n test -t android-19 --abi armeabi-v7a
$ emulator -avd test -no-skin -no-audio -no-window &
$ ./android-wait-for-emulator # see https://github.com/gildegoma/chef-android-sdk/blob/master/files/default/android-wait-for-emulator
$ adb shell input keyevent 82 &
$ <upload your apk>
$ <run your tests>
```

If you have any trouble with any of these, [contact us]({{ site.link.contact_us }}).
